[MIZUHO]
Sit.
Shake hands.
[YAMABIKO groans]
Bang!
You're s'posed to
play dead, ya know?
See?
On the ground like this.
[YAMABIKO]
Not happening.
[MIZUHO]
I thought you were a dog.
[YAMABIKO]
I was once a human.
[MIZUHO]
But you're a dog now, right?
[NAGARA]
Dinner's ready.
[YAMABIKO barks]
[MIZUHO]
Ugh.
[sniffing]
Nuh‐uh! That one is Nozomi's!
Gen, I thought you knew
better than to bring
the exact same thing as before.
[YAMABIKO]
I'm confused.
Why didn't she make
the trek with us, anyway?
[MIZUHO]
Who knows?
Probably a spat
with a certain someone.
[NAGARA slurps]
[MIZUHO] So you have
any stories to tell?
[YAMABIKO]
I'm a dog, remember?
[MIZUHO]
Be that way.
Well, how 'bout why
you turned into a dog?
[YAMABIKO]
Why did I turn into a dog?
Hmm, that's a great question.
[MIZUHO groans]
You forget?
[YAMABIKO] It was a long
time ago, so gimme a break.
[MIZUHO]
Okay, it's cool.
Can you just tell us
what you do remember?
[YAMABIKO]
Let me think a second...
Yeah. Like I said,
it was a long time ago.
About 5,000 years, in fact.
[YAMABIKO]
I was so sullen back then.
Always with a scowl on my face.
[YAMABIKO] But I met someone
who was kind enough to share
her smile with me.
[YAMABIKO] The power
she had was very special.
[YAMABIKO] With it, she could
control almost anything.
You'll be okay now.
[YAMABIKO] She brought warmth
and hope to everyone around her.
We trusted her to make decisions
in our best interest.
She meant the absolute
world to us.
[YAMABIKO] However, this hope
and happiness would not last.
[YAMABIKO] Our group was hit
by an unknown illness.
Lesions, which became tumors,
and grew larger by the day.
Although her
power seemed limitless,
we found there were things
she couldn't do,
like healing them.
[KODAMA]
Tell me, Yamabiko.
How do I look today?
[KODAMA]
I want your honest opinion.
Your pure white hair
makes me think of snowdrifts.
[KODAMA]
And?
And your lips are as blue
and as vibrant as the sky.
What else?
And your eyes...
I see more kindness
in them than ever.
[KODAMA]
Please don't look away.
[YAMABIKO]
But I‐‐
[KODAMA] I need to look into
your eyes to see myself.
[KODAMA]
Hmm. You're right.
They are kinder than before.
Way more natural.
They show who I really am.
But I realize.
Nobody else would ever say that.
[gasps]
[KODAMA grunts]
[YAMABIKO]
The truth is...
...I would've been willing to do
absolutely anything for her.
I would have become anything
she wanted me to be.
[YAMABIKO]
So.
That's how this happened.
[YAMABIKO]
She never gave up. Not once.
She held on to the hope
she could save us all
from that terrible sickness.
As the days wore on,
it got more and more difficult
to look at her directly.
Too painful for you?
[YAMABIKO]
No, the opposite.
It's because she
shined so brightly,
I could hardly bear it.
Heh! Young love...
[YAMABIKO]
The disease was savage.
The tumors began to spread
all over their bodies.
It got so bad, they didn't
even look human anymore.
And then...
Are you okay?
You can stop if you want to.
[YAMABIKO]
No.
I think you should hear this.
Things got worse, but they
still had a glimmer of hope
left in their hearts.
Everyone truly believed
that she'd find a way
to cure them somehow.
She sounds like
an amazing person.
[YAMABIKO]
Yeah.
I've seen many worlds
in my time,
but I've never met anybody with
the kind of power she possessed.
[YAMABIKO] Before I met her,
I was wandering aimlessly
from one world to the next.
It was tough, but I felt like I
could handle that a lot better
than being with my classmates.
[YAMABIKO]
I didn't really feel sad,
but I wouldn't say I was happy.
I was just existing.
[YAMABIKO]
One night, there was a new moon.
That's when I met her.
[STUDENTS gasping]
[YAMABIKO gasps]
Tell me your name.
Y‐Yamabiko.
I'm Kodama.
Hmm?
[sneezes]
[giggles]
[YAMABIKO]
Seemed like she had control
of everything in this world.
She could do whatever
she wanted.
The others referred
to her power as "M,"
and treated her like a god.
Practically worshipped her.
[KODAMA]
What am I gonna do with you?
You always need something, huh?
Fly away and be careful.
[KODAMA]
Sleep well?
I bet it's been quite a while
since you slept in a bed.
Yeah.
So do you have some kind
of special power, too?
No, I don't.
Just a normal homeless guy.
Then you're a traveler.
That's pretty cool!
Guess that's one way to put it.
We traveled around to
lots of different places
before coming here.
But this is where
we ended up settling down.
It's peaceful and
easy to live in.
It's kinda hard to believe.
Didn't know it
could be like this.
Yeah, maybe.
Hey, how come
a guy like you is alone?
I'm guessing you didn't drift
all by yourself, did you?
What do you want from me?
[gasps]
[YAMABIKO]
I don't have anything valuable,
or any kind of power
that can help you.
I've got nothing to offer
You have stories.
[YAMABIKO]
Hmm?
I wanna hear about all
the worlds you've been to.
[YAMABIKO]
Not much to talk about.
[KODAMA]
There's gotta be something.
I really don't care if
it's just a bunch of nonsense.
We're practically dying
for anything new.
So after supper's over,
it's story time, okay?
[YAMABIKO]
Do I have a say in this?
Well, it's a still early,
so let's make it nighttime.
And I'd love a full moon.
[KODAMA]
Okay, I'm looking forward to it.
[YAMABIKO]
Wait!
[gasps]
[KODAMA]
Dinner's ready, you guys!
Treat me like an idiot.
[YAMABIKO] No one had been
kind to me like that before
and it got under my skin.
I wasn't buying any of it.
[YAMABIKO]
Everyone's so fake.
None of those guys
believed me, anyway.
[YAMABIKO]
Ah...
Hey.
[YAMABIKO gasps]
[KODAMA]
Not so good cold, is it?
Here, while it's still hot.
I'll pass.
Help yourself‐‐
[YAMABIKO]
I said no, okay?
Ugh. Damn it!
I don't need any of this!
And I don't need her!
[KODAMA]
How 'bout now?
I understand.
Don't wanna burn
your tongue, huh?
What?
[KODAMA]
Mm! Perfect.
Why don't you try some?
‐‐Well, I‐‐
‐‐[KODAMA] Just try it.
[YAMABIKO sighs]
Well?
What can I say?
It's way too salty.
Yeah, you're right.
Guess I must've have put in
a little too much salt.
This has gotta be
the saltiest thing ever.
Can hardly believe it.
Yeah. I'll be more
careful next time.
[YAMABIKO] I was so embarrassed
and frustrated with myself.
But I gotta say, I was happy.
[MIZUHO] You're a surprisingly
simple guy, huh?
[NAGARA]
Mm. I can kinda relate to that.
[MIZUHO groans]
[NAGARA]
I said "kinda"!
[STUDENTS chuckling]
I guess I failed again.
It figures.
Is that so?
Yeah. Seems like all I ever do
is regret what I've done.
Wasted most of my life wrapped
up in feeling that way.
Then, of course,
I regret wasting my time.
Well, at least you've mastered
the art of regretting by now.
Oh, come on, you've gotta
have a few regrets.
I mean, like,
what about drifting away
from our old world?
I don't mind.
But why not?
Easy. I'm not here because
of some choice that I made.
I went to school
just like always.
Honestly, I was just
having a normal day.
Next thing I knew, I wasn't.
There's just nothing there
for me to regret having done.
You know?
[YAMABIKO]
Hmm.
[KODAMA] Like it or not, all we
can do in life is move forward.
[YAMABIKO] I started to think,
this might be the last stop
of the long journey I'd been on.
That I'd made it
to my destination.
That I could stay forever.
That these
days finding happiness...
...would last forever.
[BOY 08A]
How long has he been down here?
[GIRL 08A] You thought
a bird was making noise?
[GIRL 08B]
Who is he?
Will you tell me
what your name is?
[coughs]
[groans]
‐‐Ah!
‐‐[gasping]
[rasping, grunting]
[gasps]
You are so...
You look... so disgusting...
[gasps]
[retches]
[YAMABIKO] Have you heard
what they're saying?
People are wondering
if he caused this plague.
[KODAMA]
Yeah. He probably did.
[YAMABIKO] So what are
you gonna do with him?
[KODAMA]
Well, I'm not sure.
All I know, is I don't
wanna abandon him.
As soon as he saw me,
he said I looked disgusting.
Didn't even hesitate.
He was kind enough to be honest.
Plus, if I can find out
what's causing all these tumors,
I think I can use my power
to do something about them.
So what should I do?
Come on.
You have to have some ideas.
[YAMABIKO]
I...
[YAMABIKO] I think you're
doing the right thing.
Oh, really? And that's
your honest opinion?
[YAMABIKO]
Of course, are you ever wrong?
You're not.
[KODAMA] Well. I'm not perfect,
if that's what you're saying.
[YAMABIKO gasps]
[KODAMA] He reminds me of you,
at least how you were
when you first arrived.
[YAMABIKO] I saw the mistakes
she was making.
And I looked the other way.
[YAMABIKO]
I should've said something.
Tried to steer her
in another direction.
But I just couldn't.
Why not?
[YAMABIKO]
I've thought about that.
It's because I believed
in her‐‐more than in myself.
[KODAMA]
You're okay.
Let me check again tomorrow.
That's what you said yesterday.
Well, I...
He turned into this...
You literally just told him
that he'd be okay.
[KODAMA]
Let me look.
‐‐Maybe‐‐
‐‐[GIRL 08D] Don't touch him!
It's 'cause you
let him stay here.
He brought this terrible
disease with him!
We should've killed him
as soon as we had the chance.
[YAMABIKO grunts]
[gunshot]
[STRANGER] When I said you were
disgusting, that was a lie.
So don't worry.
If I'm being totally honest,
I think you're beautiful.
So then, why did you lie to me?
I wanted you to like me.
And I decided to tell you
what you wanted to hear.
Do you not care about
other people's feelings?
[STRANGER]
I get that question a lot.
You're the cause of
these tumors, aren't you?
[STRANGER]
Mm‐hmm. I am.
This disease is my gift to you.
Then how do I
get rid of the tumors?
With the power I have...
...I should be able
to cure them.
[STRANGER] Only thing I can tell
you is that they can't be cured.
Surely, you understand
that, don't you?
I'm not the only thing
that's causing them.
Okay. Goodbye.
I don't have time for this.
[gasps]
No, wait!
I've got something for you!
Okay?
What's this?
[STRANGER]
Isn't it pretty?
It's an award. it's what you get
for killing a hundred people.
[gasps]
This is for a thousand.
And ten thousand...
See? Aren't they pretty?
[KODAMA growls]
No! They're awful!
[STRANGER]
I'm sorry!
No matter what I do,
it's always wrong somehow.
Everyone I meet ends up
despising me, every single time.
What am I supposed to do?
I hate this!
[KODAMA]
Just stay away from us, okay?
[STRANGER] No, please!
Please don't be afraid of me!
Go, and never
come back here again!
[STRANGER snarls]
Damn it! Always happens!
Why?! I hate this!
You never caught the
disease they had, did you?
[YAMABIKO]
No.
And to this day
I feel terrible about it.
He said it wasn't really
a plague in the normal sense.
It was like a different
kind of This World.
One where mental wounds
manifested as painful tumors.
He called that world "Scar Art."
[STRANGER]
Yeah, this is my art form.
Hopefully, I'll collect
a lot more of these.
So you want to see it?
Come over here.
[YAMABIKO growls]
[STRANGER] Hey. Aren't you
curious why you're the only one
who's not sick and
covered in carbuncles?
There's a good reason for it.
Want me to tell?
It's because this world
is entirely your creation.
[YAMABIKO gasps]
[YAMABIKO] I hadn't realized
it until that point.
The ability to materialize
what was inside my mind.
[YAMABIKO]
That was my power.
[YAMABIKO] At some point,
in all my wandering.
I'd become locked inside
a shell of myself.
That's why I was the only one
who didn't get sick, and why,
given the circumstances,
Kodama's powers couldn't help.
[STRANGER]
You may not want to hear this,
but these sores are
caused by things
happening outside of this world.
The only way to cure them
is to resolve those issues.
[YAMABIKO]
Well, how do I do that?
[STRANGER] All you have
to do is change yourself.
Just crack open that
little shell you've created
and fly out.
[STRANGER]
At this point, however,
I'm afraid it's too late.
I'm leaving.
[YAMABIKO snarls]
[STRANGER]
I get it.
I know how you feel.
It's extremely frustrating.
But there's nothing
we discarded ones can do.
There's no other option here.
I mean, you've heard
the voice, too, right?
[YAMABIKO]
Who the hell are you, really?
[STRANGER]
We've met before.
Though it appears you
don't remember me at all.
You have seen me around.
Not once, but many times,
in fact, and in many places.
[YAMABIKO growling]
[WAR]
There, there, you're a good boy.
It's just unfortunate that
you lack the courage necessary.
With just a little bit of that,
you could've saved her.
She'd been waiting
for you to come along.
Eerily nice and pleasant, but
surprisingly simple and dull.
No doubt that
this is your world.
All right then, farewell.
But before I go...
...I neglected
to tell you earlier,
but you should probably know...
...my name's War.
[KODAMA]
I kept telling him to fly away.
But this is still my fault.
'Cause if I'd never interfered,
he might have flown off
somewhere better.
It's funny. I thought
I was helping him,
but it turns out I was
only holding him back.
Yamabiko...
[YAMABIKO]
Yeah, what?
[KODAMA] You'll do anything
I ask, won't you?
[YAMABIKO]
'Course I will.
[KODAMA] All I'm asking of you,
is to make good on this promise.
Please, fly away from here.
[YAMABIKO grunts]
[KODAMA] This place...
is not the real world.
[KODAMA grunts]
I'm okay.
[KODAMA groans softly] Just...
promise you'll do that, okay?
I know you can...
[YAMABIKO]
Mm‐hmm.
Because... you...
[YAMABIKO] And that's how a dog,
all on his own,
found himself in
the forest for so long.
[YAMABIKO]
The truth is...
...I had so many chances.
I could've saved
her at any time.
But I never opened
my eyes to see that.
All she wanted...
...was to walk by my side.
Travel though the worlds
with me as my companion.
She waited for me for so long.
And when I found her,
I didn't step up and do
what I needed to do.
[YAMABIKO]
Sorry to blab at you like this.
[MIZUHO]
Yamabiko?
[YAMABIKO]
Yeah?
[MIZUHO]
Can I sleep with you tonight?
[KODAMA]
You promised me, remember?
[YAMABIKO gasps]
[KODAMA]
That we'd go together.
Take a nice stroll down
that long road of bones
you told me about.
We'll talk, and maybe
even eat some ice cream...
[YAMABIKO]
Yeah.
Just us...
[YAMABIKO whimpers]
[YAMABIKO]
Can't sleep?
Yeah.
I have a lot on my mind.
I keep thinking, like, about
choices I've made and stuff.
Things I did or didn't do.
I don't know...
I can't go back
and change things now.
It's just keeping me up.
[YAMABIKO] I realized that I
just wanted to be in the light.
But I was so afraid of
losing it, that I was paralyzed.
[YAMABIKO] But... I finally
came out of my shell.
[YAMABIKO]
After 5,000 years.
I don't know if I can.
[YAMABIKO]
Yeah... you can.
[NAGARA gasps]
[MIZUHO]
Nozomi!
Glad you're here!
[NOZOMI growls]
You're so late!
[NAGARA]
This is when we said we'd meet.
[NOZOMI]
Ugh! Nuh‐uh!
We said we were gonna meet up
two weeks ago! See?
My clock's different.
[NOZOMI]
Hmm? Oh, that's weird.
[YAMABIKO] Seems like
time was flowing differently
for you guys.
Now we're back in sync.
Yeah.
[NOZOMI] Whoa, so all that
stuff happened on the island?
Did you ever find out
who this "War" guy
was even fighting against?
[YAMABIKO] His main objective
was killing God.
[NOZOMI]
Mm? Can someone really do that?
[YAMABIKO]
Dunno.
Even if he did kill God...
...would that change anything?